---
title: 不忘初心-Critial thinking
date: 2019-10-09 21:59:42
tags: life
categories: Random Writing
---

#### Critical thinking is important for everything!

> "People don't want to buy a quater-inch drill. They want a quater-inch hole."

I should not forget my persuing goal. To clarify this needs critial thinking.

Critical thinking means:

* **Focus**: It means "focus on the essential issue"
* **Practical**: It means "a pipeline to accomplish it"

##### Critical thinking is important for life. 

Too many noise wandering around us are exhausting. To get the true meaning of life is to get the answers of what I really want and what I am pursuing.

A clean life is what I need: mood in ease, body in health, friends in peace.

##### Critical thinking is important for work.

Working is the way to self-establishment. To get the true goal of work is to get the answers of what I want to call myself and what I am doing.

An expert in finding cancer therapy? A bridge between computational people and experimental biologists? A person with some sloppy works?

##### Critical thinking is important for research.

Both good research and bad research takes time. The distinction is good research comes from good questions.

Good questions should be:

1. Significant. Such as Yoyo Tu.
2. Practical. A clear pipeline to address it.
3. Noval. First essential question in the field.

I should evaluate myself day by day: does what I am doing fit these criteria?

People always fell in fever in some fields or some techniques, such as immunotherapy and CRISPR. Chasing fance should not be the final goal of research.

I need to find a promising and practical field to sacrifice myself.